Think of a situation in your life
that is difficult
or that is causing you some stress.
Call the situation to your mind.
You may even notice
that you can actually feel the stress
and emotional discomfort in your body.
If so, that's okay.
It's normal to feel discomfort
in difficult situations.
Once you have a situation in your mind,
say to yourself,
This is a moment of suffering.
Just noticing that you're struggling in
this moment is mindfulness.
Other options
that you could say to yourself include:
"this hurts".
"Ouch".
"This is stressful".
In this first step, mindfulness,
we are noticing and acknowledging
that something is hard.
That's it.
And we can use whatever language
or wording that resonates
and matches your experience.
Next, we acknowledge
that suffering is a part of life.
That's common humanity.
You could say to
yourself: "other
people feel this way, too".
"I'm not alone".
We all struggle in our lives.
Now I invite you to try
putting your hands over your heart,
feeling the warmth of your hands,
and the gentle touch of your hands
on your chest.
Or adopt another soothing touch
that feels right for you.
Maybe it's wrapping yourself in a hug.
As you do this, say to yourself,
"may I be kind to myself?"
This is the self kindness
component of self-compassion,
the third component.
You can also ask yourself,
What do I need to hear right now
to express
kindness to myself?
Is there a phrase that speaks to you
in your particular situation?
Such as?
May I give myself
the compassion that I need?
May I learn
to accept myself as I am?
May I be strong?
May I be patient?
And remember, you can adapt the wording
so that it feels genuine to you.
I will give myself a break.
I will be strong.
I will work through this difficulty.
I'm learning to accept myself as I am.
Use this practice
any time you need some self-compassion.
Remembering the three elements
of mindfulness,
common humanity and self kindness.